# BlueChi Workshop - Programming Assignment

As we have discussed, BlueChi provides API on DBus, which can be accessed via DBus libraries, that exist in all the popular programming languages. Examples can be found in the [Eclipse BlueChi GitHub repository](https://github.com/eclipse-bluechi/bluechi/tree/main/doc/api-examples/python).

In this section we will take one of the examples and extend it to a rudimantal State Manager, that uses BlueChi API to monitor and control a Systemd unit on one of the workers.

## Prepare environment

Go to the shared directory that we have created in the [SETUP](1.SETUP.md) section, and download the [monitor-unit.py](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-bluechi/bluechi/main/doc/api-examples/python/monitor-unit.py) example.

```bash
cd /tmp/bluechi-workshop
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-bluechi/bluechi/main/doc/api-examples/python/monitor-unit.py
```

For developing, open the script with your preferred IDE on your host machine, e.g. vscode: `code /tmp/bluechi-workshop/monitor-unit.py`. In order to run the script, log into the controller container:

```bash
sudo podman exec -it controller /bin/bash
cd /share
python3 monitor-unit.py httpd.service
```

Review the output. Log in from another terminal to the `worker1` or `controller` container, and stop the `httpd.service` with `systemctl` or `bluechictl` (respectivly).

## Assignment

Use the provided example to create a service, that monitors specified unit state, and restarts if it is shut down. You can review other examples for ideas. Also, feel free to use C, Rust or Go examples and accomplish the assignment in any language, other than Python.

Good luck! Please feel free to ask of the workshop organizers if you have any questions.

[< Back](3.DEPLOY_APPLICATION.md)